Go To TopJavatpoint Logo

Home
DBMS
SQL
PL/SQL
SQLite
MongoDB
Cassandra
MySQL
Oracle
CouchDB
Neo4j
DB2M,NCNCBXZZZZZZZZ,M,M.(****(*(*poiioi"((*&{()))))){&JDSKHFIH;HFOI;DROES;RESFHNZ
C
Java
Projects
Interview Q

Candidate Key in DBMS
A candidate key is a part of a key known as Super Key (discussed in the previous section), where the super key is the super set of all those attributes that can uniquely identify a table.

Here, we will be discussing about candidate key, its role, as well as its use. We will also look at some examples that will make us to better understand the concept of a candidate key.

What is a Candidate Key
A candidate key is a subset of a super key set where the key which contains no redundant attribute is none other than a Candidate Key. In order to select the candidate keys from the set of super key, we need to look at the super key set.

Role of a Candidate Key
The role of a candidate key is to identify a table row or column uniquely. Also, the value of a candidate key cannot be Null. The description of a candidate key is "no redundant attributes" and being a "minimal representation of a tuple," according to the Experts.

How a Candidate key is different from a Primary Key
Although the purpose of both candidate and the primary key is the same, that is to uniquely identify the tuples, and then also they are different from each other. It is because, in a table, we can have one or more than one candidate key, but we can create only one primary key for a table. Thus, from the number of obtained candidate keys, we can identify the appropriate primary key. However, if there is only one candidate key in a table, then it can be considered for both key constraints.

Example of Candidate Key
Let's look at the same example took while discussing Super Key to understand the working of a candidate key.

We have an EMPLOYEE_DETAIL table where we have the following attributes:

Emp_SSN: The SSN number is stored in this field.

Emp_Id: An attribute that stores the value of the employee identification number.

Emp_name: An attribute that stores the name of the employee holding the specified employee id.

Emp_email: An attribute that stores the email id of the specified employees.

The EMPLOYEE_DETAIL table is given below that will help you understand better:

Candidate Key in DBMS
So, from the above table, we obtained the below given super keys (discussed in the previous section):

Candidate Key in DBMS
Now, from these sets of super keys, we can conclude the candidate keys. In order to pick up the candidate keys, the best way is to analyze and form the primary keys as much as we can. So, we need to identify those sets from the super key sets that alone can identify the whole table, or we can say the other attributes of the table. Thus, the result is:

Candidate Key in DBMS
So, these are the three attributes obtained that can identify the other non-prime attributes of the table. All these are the candidate keys and from which we can pick the most appropriate attribute that can easily identify all records of the table, which will be described as the Primary key.

Difference between Candidate Key and Super Key
From the above discussions, we can have the following difference points:

Super Key	Candidate Key
It is the superset of all such attributes that can uniquely identify the table.	It is the subset or the part of the Super key.
It is not at all compulsory that all super keys are candidate keys.	On the other hand, all candidate keys are super keys.
The super key attribute can be NULL, which means its values can be null.	An attribute holding a candidate key can never be NULL, which means its values cannot be null.
All the super keys formed together to bring the candidate keys.	Similarly, candidate keys are put together to create primary keys.
The number of super keys formed is always seen more.	Here, Candidate keys are less than super keys.
Thus, the super key is the super set, the candidate key is the subset, and the primary key is the sub-subset of the superkey.



← PrevNext →

Youtube For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now
Feedback
Send your Feedback to feedback@javatpoint.com
Help Others, Please Share
facebook twitter pinterest

Learn Latest Tutorials
Splunk tutorial
Splunk

SPSS tutorial
SPSS

Swagger tutorial
Swagger

T-SQL tutorial
Transact-SQL

Tumblr tutorial
Tumblr

React tutorial
ReactJS

Regex tutorial
Regex

Reinforcement learning tutorial
Reinforcement Learning

R Programming tutorial
R Programming

RxJS tutorial
RxJS

React Native tutorial
React Native

Python Design Patterns
Python Design Patterns

Python Pillow tutorial
Python Pillow

Python Turtle tutorial
Python Turtle

Keras tutorial
Keras


Preparation
Aptitude
Aptitude

Logical Reasoning
Reasoning

Verbal Ability
Verbal Ability

Interview Questions
Interview Questions

Company Interview Questions
Company Questions


Trending Technologies
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence

AWS Tutorial
AWS

Selenium tutorial
Selenium

Cloud Computing
Cloud Computing

Hadoop tutorial
Hadoop

ReactJS Tutorial
ReactJS

Data Science Tutorial
Data Science

Angular 7 Tutorial
Angular 7

Blockchain Tutorial
Blockchain

Git Tutorial
Git

Machine Learning Tutorial
Machine Learning

DevOps Tutorial
DevOps


B.Tech / MCA
DBMS tutorial
DBMS

Data Structures tutorial
Data Structures

DAA tutorial
DAA

Operating System
Operating System

Computer Network tutorial
Computer Network

Compiler Design tutorial
Compiler Design

Computer Organization and Architecture
Computer Organization

Discrete Mathematics Tutorial
Discrete Mathematics

Ethical Hacking
Ethical Hacking

Computer Graphics Tutorial
Computer Graphics

Software Engineering 
Software Engineering

html tutorial
Web Technology

Cyber Security tutorial
Cyber Security

Automata Tutorial
Automata

C Language tutorial
C Programming

C++ tutorial
C++

Java tutorial
Java

.Net Framework tutorial
.Net

Python tutorial
Python

List of Programs
Programs

Control Systems tutorial
Control System

Data Mining Tutorial
Data Mining

Data Warehouse Tutorial
Data Warehouse






